docs: update jellyfin hardware acceleration and file path (#3734)
beclab/Olares: docs/use-cases/jellyfin.md

   - **Content type**: Choose the type of media (e.g., Movies, Shows, Music). For folders containing both movies and TV shows, choose **Mixed Movies and Shows**.
   - **Display name**: Enter the name to display for the library.<br>
   - **Folders**: Click + to add the path to your media.<br>
      - **Olares Files**: `/olares/userdata/home/<YourMediaFolder>`
      - **External storage**: `/olares/userdata/external/<YourMediaFolder>`
4. Click **Ok** to save, and repeat for other media types (e.g., one for "Movies", one for "TV Shows").

Once saved, Jellyfin will automatically scan your folders and begin building your library. This process may take several minutes, depending on the size of your collection.

## Enable hardware acceleration for transcoding 

> When you enable Jellyfin’s hardware acceleration, the server will use your CPU’s built-in GPU multimedia engine for video decoding, encoding, scaling, and certain tone mapping tasks when transcoding is needed. This reduces the load on the CPU compared to software-only decoding, and is especially useful for playing 4K high-bitrate sources, downscaling resolution or bitrate, handling media formats not supported by the client, converting HDR to SDR, or embedding subtitles. Note that by default, Jellyfin will prefer Direct Play or Remux; hardware acceleration is only used when the device is not compatible or network bandwidth is insufficient and transcoding is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hardware acceleration reduces CPU usage when Jellyfin needs to transcode video. Transcoding may be required when the client does not support the original format, the resolution or bitrate must be reduced, HDR content must be converted to SDR, or subtitles need to be burned into the video.

Jellyfin still prioritizes Direct Play and Remux. Hardware acceleration is used only when transcoding is required.
```

> Here’s how to enable Intel QSV hardware acceleration on an Olares One device:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable Intel Quick Sync Video (QSV) on Olares One:
```

> 1. First, update Jellyfin in the Olares Market to version 1.0.21 or above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Olares Market, update Jellyfin to version 1.0.21 or later.
```

2. Navigate to **Settings** > **Applications** > **Jellyfin** > **Manage Environment Variables**.

>    - Set the `ENABLE_HW_ACCEL` variable to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Set `ENABLE_HW_ACCEL` to `true`.
```

>    - Enter the values for `VIDEO_GID` and `RENDER_GID` from your host system. For Olares One, these default to `44` and `994`. If you are using a different device, open the terminal from the **Control Hub** and run the following commands to check the correct values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Set `VIDEO_GID` to `44`, and `RENDER_GID` to `994`. These GID values are the defaults for Olares One. 
   On other devices, open Olares terminal from **Control Hub** and run:

      ```bash
      getent group video
      getent group render
      ls -ln /dev/dri
      ```
    ![Get GID](/images/manual/use-cases/jellyfin-gid.png#bordered){width=90%}

>    - After saving the settings, the system will automatically restart the Jellyfin container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Save the changes. Olares automatically restarts Jellyfin.
```

> 3. In the Jellyfin **Dashboard** (click the ≡ icon > Dashboard), go to **Playback** > **Transcoding**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the Jellyfin **Dashboard**, go to **Playback** > **Transcoding**.
```

> 4. Under **Hardware acceleration**, select the appropriate options based on your Olares device's hardware. For example, on Olares One with Intel QSV, it is recommended to enable `H264`, `HEVC`, and `HEVC 10bit`, and keep the other options as default. For more detailed configuration guidance, refer to the official [Jellyfin transcoding docs](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/post-install/transcoding/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Under **Hardware acceleration**, select the appropriate options based on your Olares device's hardware. For example, on Olares One:
- Select **Intel QuickSync (QSV)**.
- Enable hardware coding for `H264`, `HEVC`, and `HEVC 10bit`. 
- Keep the other options at their default values. 

Hardware capabilities vary by device. For configuration details, refer to the official [Jellyfin transcoding docs](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/post-install/transcoding/).
```

   
   ![Enable transcoding](/images/manual/use-cases/jellyfin-transcoding.png#bordered){width=90%}

:::tip Best Practices
For a home theater setup, it's best to ensure your main TV or media player supports popular formats such as HEVC Main10, HDR10, SRT subtitles, and mainstream audio codecs. This allows Jellyfin to use Direct Play as much as possible, delivering media without unnecessary transcoding. Hardware acceleration and transcoding are intended to solve compatibility issues or support playback over remote or weak networks, not to replace Direct Play.

Additionally, enabling `ENABLE_HW_ACCEL` gives Jellyfin extra permissions to access DRM. For security reasons, only enable this option when you actually need hardware acceleration.

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip Best practices
For a home theater setup, use a TV or media player that supports HEVC Main 10, HDR10, SRT subtitles, and common audio formats so Jellyfin can use Direct Play whenever possible. Hardware-accelerated transcoding is mainly intended to resolve format compatibility issues or improve playback over remote or bandwidth-limited networks. It should not replace Direct Play.
:::
::: warning Device access
Enabling `ENABLE_HW_ACCEL` gives Jellyfin additional access to the host’s `/dev/dri` graphics devices. Enable this option only when hardware acceleration is needed.
:::
```

Jellyfin still prioritizes Direct Play and Remux. Hardware acceleration is used only when transcoding is required.

To enable Intel Quick Sync Video (QSV) on Olares One:

1. In Olares Market, update Jellyfin to version 1.0.21 or later.
2. Navigate to **Settings** > **Applications** > **Jellyfin** > **Manage Environment Variables**.
   - Set `ENABLE_HW_ACCEL` to `true`.
   - Set `VIDEO_GID` to `44`, and `RENDER_GID` to `994`. These GID values are the defaults for Olares One. 
   On other devices, open Olares terminal from **Control Hub** and run:
      ```bash
      getent group video
      getent group render
      ls -ln /dev/dri
      ```
    ![Get GID](/images/manual/use-cases/jellyfin-gid.png#bordered){width=90%}
3. Save the changes. Olares automatically restarts Jellyfin.

4. In the Jellyfin **Dashboard**, go to **Playback** > **Transcoding**.
5. Under **Hardware acceleration**, select the appropriate options based on your Olares device's hardware. For example, on Olares One:
- Select **Intel QuickSync (QSV)**.
- Enable hardware coding for `H264`, `HEVC`, and `HEVC 10bit`. 

> - Keep the other options at their default values. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Select **Intel QuickSync (QSV)**.
  - Enable hardware coding for `H264`, `HEVC`, and `HEVC 10bit`. 
  - Keep the other options at their default values. 
```

>   - Keep the other options at their default values. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Select **Intel QuickSync (QSV)**.
   - Enable hardware coding for `H264`, `HEVC`, and `HEVC 10bit`. 
   - Keep the other options at their default values. 
```
